1. Introduction to Python
    By Gudio van Rossum
    Named after Monty Python's Flying Circus comedy program (has 4 seasons, telecased in 1969)
    High Level, Structured and open source language, cross platform, Huge community, Large eco system
    
    interpreted programming language(Automatically compiled into bytecode before execution by an interpreter)
       
     python is very popular language, used for multi purpose
       - Data analysis, web development, mobile development, AI/ML, automation
       
     Applications written in python
     Ex: youtube, dropbox, reddit, Instagram, Pinterest
     
    
    pythons has 2 major versions (not backward compatible)
      -python 2
      -python 3 (introduced in 2008)
      
      python 3 introduced to fix issues in python 2
      
      Differences of python versions 2,3 (https://www.guru99.com/python-2-vs-python-3.html)
      
      python 3                  python2 
      
      print("Hello")            print "hello"
      new range() function      xRange() function for iterations
      for iteration
      
      Course structure
      
       1. Background
       2. Introduction to Python
       3. Operators and Expressions in Python
       4. "Selection" Control structures in python
       5. Loop Control structures
       6. Lists
       7. Numbers
       8. Strings
       9. Functions
       10. Handling files
       11. Additional Section - Software Enginnering introduction
       
2. Introduction to command line interface.(cli)
     
     Inclass
        ----------
        QUIZ - What basic tools do you need to start programming?
                  - A computer, a text editor, the shell(terminal, cli), and a compiler/interpreter
               
               What command would you use for the following in bash (CLI)?
               Check your current directory - pwd
               Change to a directory named ‘bin’ (bin is in your current directory) - cd bin
               make a new directory called ‘lib’ - mkdir lib
               create a new file called ‘book.py’ - touch book.py
               list all the contents the current directory - ls
               
      Terminology
      
      Source code - file which contain our code. (aka program, code)
      file extention for different languages.
      example.py
      example.java
      example.php
      example.pl - PERL language

3.Setting up development environment.
   Linux
   Windows
   
   There are two modes of running python 
   interactive mode, normal mode (save a file and run it)

   Create a python file from terminal an run it using python.
   print 'Hello Srilanka'
     
   Do the same with IDLE
     
   Extra - https://realpython.com/python-first-steps/#1-what-is-python
     
  
